Google's capstone project n°2: Bellabeat's marketing strategy, made with the tools PowerBI and Google Bigquery online sandbox.
DISCLAIMER: Due to the free trial nature of the Bigquery sandbox there may be some problem in the future with the dataset since they will last for only 60 days.

CONCLUSION OF THE PROJECT:

1) With the analysis we can conclude that:

The subject to stay healthy and loose calories has to walk and stay active as much as it can.
The best way to stay healthy is to have an intense session of activity even if it is for a shorter period of time rather than a lower intensity session but for a shorter period of time.
It is advised to sleep within 7-9 hours daily otherwise there may be some slight heart complication such as low heartrate.
It is also advised to not be sedentary too much as it can couse heart problems.
It appears there are 2 distinct groups with different daily habits: the first with a healthier way of life, with a lower sedentary life and the second, with a lazier way of life.
There are some days more than others where motivation to stay active is really low.



2) Bellabeat's marketing strategy:

First of all Bellabeat should be more involved in a better data collection ecosystem, the data has a lot of flaws, it is somewhat superficial,
it was just enough to scrape the surface of the problems but it can't be used to find the root cause, the subjects who had their data collected are few,
and the time period covered by the data I think it is insufficient to discovered more serious health complications.

As to why so little people wanted to share data to Bellabeat i can not respond since the data given where not relevant to this question, 
but maybe Bellabeat is not trusted whith personal data, maybe people are too embarassed to share it, maybe they just don't want too as they think it is a waste of time.
Bellabeat has to do something about it, the firm can possibly reward the users that share the data, with products that can incentivise daily activity or application that 
can show them the subjects progress, or better their data collection / data storing to increase trust in the clients ecc...

With regards to the "Leaf" product should inform the client of growing bad habits, and show what an ideal day of activities should be, 
and how an ideal night of rest should be planned. So the user should be notified of:

-a bad sleep schedule: it is important to sleep 7-9 hours per day
-a daily activity routine: even a small amount of intense exercise should be enough to put the patient in shape
-too much sedentary life: the user should be somewhat active throughout the day, it is okay to be tired or a little lazy for part of the day but it is 
crucial not to overdo it and step in an unhealthy lifestyle
-Days where motivation is at its lowest

Once this trends are picked up by the "Leaf" product, the application should incentivise the client to fix possible unhealthy habits.
Possibles strategies to inspire customers to be more active could be:

-Activity points and in-app rewards: The more a client stays active the more it will earn points which could be spendable in the app;
the rewards could vary, maybe a new app style, maybe an avatar to differencieate the clients from the other, maybe items for these avatars to characterize 
the client even further or maybe real life items such as gyms artnered with Bellabeat or other sport related brands.

-Since the product is mainly used by females users the marketing team could analyze better what kind of interactions and/or rewards this specific client group wants from the app.

-Make competitions: Creating a leaderboard with all the users that consent to publicly compete in various areas, like calories loss, steps taken, minutes of activity, ecc...
The competitions could start with a smaller area and grow bigger and bigger as the customer wins, and as it wins it could earn badges or even items that
share the results of the client work and achievements to other application users or friends and family through social media.

I think that if applied correctly these marketing strategies will benefit both the customers, giving them a healthier body and lifestyle,
while also benefitting Bellabeat as a company, creating a genuine and organic word of mouth, strenghtening the relationship between Bellabeat and its customers
and increasing the firm reputation and trust (which Bellabeat could defenitly benefit as shown by the quality of data collected).

User generated content is the key for a good image, trust and uniqueness for a company that sells such personal products like Bellabeat and since 
the firm already has a solid reputation for quality and beatiful products I think it should go all out and create way more ways so that the customers
can express themself through Bellabeat's products.
